as a puppy bella finds her way into the
arms of lucas
a young man who gives her a good home
when bella becomes separated from lucas
she soon finds herself on an epic
400-mile journey to reunite with her
beloved owner
along the way the lost but spirited dog
meets a series of new friends and
manages to bring
a little bit of comfort and joy to their
lives
lucas ray and his friend olivia two
residents of denver colorado
find a puppy in a construction site
along with many kittens and a mother cat
he names the dog bella and takes her
home to live with him and his mother
terry ray
over the years lucas plays with and
takes care of bella
however lucas also continues to feed the
cats at the old house
putting himself in the crosshairs of
gunter beckenbauer
the man who intends to demolish the
house he even calls the city about the
cats who live there
which delays the demolition vengeful
gunter notifies animal control that
bella is a pit bull
because in denver pit bulls are illegal
due to being a dangerous breed
that evening an overzealous animal
control officer named chuck
comes by to warn lucas that if he finds
bella on the street
he will impound her the next day when
bella gets out to chase a squirrel
lucas catches up to her and prepares to
take her home but chuck
confiscates bella and takes her into the
local animal shelter
lucas picks bella up pays a fine and is
allowed to take her home
but he is warned that if bella is
captured again she will be euthanized
to avoid this lucas sends bella to live
with olivia's aunt and uncle
in farmington new mexico until he and
his mother can find another home outside
of denver's urban limits
however bella misses lucas so much that
she leaves farmington
and begins a 400 mile journey home which
will take more
than two years to complete during
bella's journey
she befriends a cougar cub whom she
names big kitten
bella and big kitten encounter many
ordeals together
including being hunted by a pack of
coyotes but a group of men help bella
and frighten the coyotes away
the three men give bella food at their
campsite and upon learning who her owner
is
try to call lucas only to be scared away
by the sudden arrival of big kitten
during the winter bella helps rescue a
man buried in an avalanche
eventually she reaches a small town
where she is temporarily taken in by a
homeless veteran named axel
until he soon dies back in the
wilderness
bella is attacked by coyotes again but
big kitten
now fully grown returns and intervenes
successfully fighting off the coyotes at
each place
bella goes she learns that each of her
new friends has its own home
and how she must keep moving to get back
to her family
after encounting further challenges
bella finally makes it back to denver
and she bids big kitten farewell before
they part ways
she reaches the city's va hospital where
she joyfully reunites with lucas terry
and olivia
lucas prepares to take bella to the vet
to treat an injury bella received due to
being struck by a car
but when lucas terry and lucas's friends
bring bella outside
chuck arrives with several police
officers including police captain micah
chuck claims that he needs to confiscate
bella again
with the threat to have lucas and anyone
who intervenes
arrested otherwise captain micah states
that he enforces the law which states
that bella must be impounded
but lucas and terry stand up for bella
and explain that there is
no reason to confiscate bella as the va
hospital is federal property
and thus is not technically part of
denver
captain micah allows lucas to keep bella
as he has no jurisdiction
chuck threatens to pull lucas over if he
sees bella leave the premises
but captain micah admonishes chuck and
pulls him from public field duty for his
overzealousness
and the number of complaints against him
and then orders the police officers
not to pull anybody over just for a dog
lucas and olivia are happy to see bella
again and finally managed to move into a
house in golden
where they allow pit bulls meanwhile big
kitten is revealed to be a mother
herself now
and she and her cub watch over the city
of denver